# Vagrant Development Environment

[Vagrant](https://vagrantup.com) is a manager for autogenerated virtual
machines.  This directory contains a `Vagrantfile` that specifies how to create
a [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org) virtual machine with a development
environment suitable for this project.


## Vagrant Installation

You should install Vagrant using the official installers from their website.

_Note: if you are using Ubuntu, do not install vagrant from the apt
repositories.  It does not work._


## VirtualBox Installation

If you're on Linux, you should be able to install VirtualBox using the package
manager.  If you're on Windows, go to https://www.virtualbox.org and download
the installer.


## Enable Virtualization

For many systems, you will need to enable virtualization in the BIOS.  Restart
your computer and press the key that enters your bios settings while the bios
is booting up the system.  For most motherboards, this is the `Delete` key, but
the required key is usually briefly displayed on the screen before the OS boots
up.

You will need to enable virtualization.  For AMD, this is called V-AMD and
should be in the CPU settings.  I am not sure what it is called for Intel CPUs,
but it again should be in the CPU settings.


## Instructions to use

These instructions assume you have followed the above advise - that you have
installed the necessary software and that you have enabled virtualization.

_Note: this virtual machine will be quite big.  For me, it was about 16 GB with
a maximum size of 32 GB.  Make sure you have enough room on your computer for
this._

To use this `Vagrantfile`, go into the `vagrant` directory in the repository
and call `vagrant up`.  This will create the virtual machine (if it hasn't
already been created), start it up, and then run a bunch of setup commands.
These setup commands are called "provisioning" your virtual machine are are
only executed the first time the machine is started.

On this first time you call `vagrant up`, a window will appear with a login.
Just ignore this for now until the setup commands have completed.

Once the setup commands have completed, close the virtual machine.  You can do
this any number of ways.  The recommended way is to enter `vagrant halt` into
the terminal.  But closing it through VirtualBox is fine too.

You can now start it again, either through VirtualBox directly or through
Vagrant.  The latter is recommended.  Again, you just need to be in the
`vagrant` directory and call `vagrant up`.  It should start up much faster and
with no setup commands to go through.

It should have a graphical login this time.  Log in with username `vagrant` and
password `vagrant`.  Once you successfully log in, you can change the system
however you want.  You can change the VirtualBox settings (probably should stop
it first), you can install software, develop code, or use wacky wallpapers.
The sky is the limit.

Full set of commands:

```bash
git clone https://bitbucket.org/mikebentley15/tendon_experiments
cd tendon_experiments/vagrant
vagrant up
vagrant halt
vagrant up
```

That's it!
